Welcome back Aliens. My name is Devan Reddy and in this video we will talk about the Python
installation. The thing is we have talked about the language which is very powerful
but then where you will write your code. Of course we can simply open your
notepad and we can write the code which we want. So example I can simply go back here
and I can say okay what type of code I want to write. So it can be anything. It can be let's say
2 plus 3. Now when you say you want to write a code it can be a calculation, a computation. So
basically a normal calculation like adding two numbers or deciding in which stock to invest
or maybe deciding who should be the next CEO. So basically the idea is if you want to write a code
to design a software which can do some activities we have to write a code but where.
If you write the code in the notepad of course you are not getting the output. Where do you
will get the output for this? This is tricky right and that's why in your machine you need
a python interpreter. So basically we have to install some software and in this machine I
don't have it. How do I verify? It's very simple. You can open your command prompt. So if you're
using Windows you can use command prompt to check it or if you're using Mac or Linux
you can open the terminal. So I'm here on command prompt and here let me see if I have Python.
Now basically the way you can check that is by saying Python version and if you get this type
of error which says Python was not found that means in this machine I don't have Python. Okay
with Python 3 you might also check if you do you have Python 3 installed and you can see
nothing is there. So even if you have Python installed sometime it will not work with the
Python command it might work for the Python 3 command. So do check both the versions and in
this machine I don't have any. So how do you get it? So the first thing we need is Python interpreter
and okay let's say we got python interpreter and then you can write a code there. The thing is
in the interpreter it provides you an option of writing a code one line at a time. So of course
you can add two numbers but what if you want to build a big project. Now it can be a scientific
project or a AI project. Now that's what is booming nowadays. So if you want to build an AI project
or a web application or a desktop application where you will do it for that you need a software
where you can write the code test your code run your code debug your code and also deploy your
code to the cloud where you will do it. Now that's why we have to use something called an IDE which
stands for integrated development environment. Now for Python we have a lot of options. Now one
is very famous which is your pie charm. Now this is from JetBrains again in this video I will show
you how to install Python interpreter and the pie charm. So let's start with the interpreter.
So what you will do is in fact in the updated version of Windows when you say Python enter
it will open the Microsoft store but let's say if you don't have this configured that's fine.
What you can do is you can just go to Google and search for Python download. So you can say this
is the option you will get. So of course the first website says Python you can download it from here.
Now in the upcoming videos you might see a different version of Python install and that's
completely fine because in the version difference you will not find a lot of changes. So even those
things those code will work here. Okay. So you can go for Python 3.12 which is the latest version I
feel. So if I click on download so you can see we got download Python 3.12 so you can download
this version 13 is into release so don't use starting at this point. We got 12 which is
3.12. So we can click here and say download. Okay. So you can see it is downloading and
downloading complete. I feel yeah that's done. Now depend upon which OS you have Windows Linux
or Mac depend upon that you can choose from here. So you can say we have different options here
and yeah so that's a thing. So let me click on this and install. So basically I don't have this
install so I will just click here and now this will install the software. Okay. So you can see
we have an option here which is install now or customize. I will go for simple installation
but before doing that I also want to say add a python.exe to the path. Basically even if you
have installed maybe whenever you open a different folder python may not be available there. So if you
do this add a python.exe to your path you don't have to manually search for the installation.
So you can click on this install now and it will take some time. Now if you skip that step of
add to the path then you have to manually set the path but anyway when you do the add to path
you don't have to do the next the other steps. So by the time it is getting installed what we can
do is we can also get the pycharm downloads done. So I will search for pycharm now pycharm is from
JetBrains which is a very famous company for the IDs and software tools. So it helps developers.
Now basically we can also use VS code for python. You can also use anaconda or ideally which is the
interpreter and yeah many more. So I will just click on this I will say download pycharm. The
thing is when you download or when you get to the pycharm it's not actually free. Okay now that's
a twist right. So we have two versions there one is a paid version one is a free version so I would
encourage you to go for the free version but yes once you become a professional once you're
working for a company then it makes sense to use the paid version. So this is the website and as
I mentioned this is developed by JetBrains which is the website here it's also the company and we
also have a community version. So if you want the community version you can scroll down and you can
see we have two different versions professional and community. I will click on the community version
if you go for the professional version you will get trial for one month. So you decide if you want
to use it or not but I would encourage you to use the community version. So it's going to be
downloaded let me go back to my python setup and looks like python setup is completed let me click
on close. So setup is complete how do I verify again we have to go to command prompt now one
thing to remember even if you have installed a python and if you directly do this it may not
work so you have to reopen your command prompt. So now if I say cmd and let me try now python
version and you can see we got python installed this time we are getting a version number we're
not getting that error which was getting earlier. So yeah python is installed now how do I test it
it's very simple you simply say python it will open the interpreter now this is where you can
write a code of course doesn't look good right maybe you need a software where you will find in
fact if you have learned some other languages you can write the code you can see the project you can
run the code we'll see that in pycharm but here you can see we got the interpreter and here I can
simply add those two numbers and it is working right so you can yeah you can do calculations
computations whatever you can do in this prompt apart from this if you want to open python you
can also search for python so you can see it will also give you an app so you can also use this one
this is the ideally from python in fact ideally looks like something like this so this is the
python interpreter you can also use ideally yeah I know wide theme a lot of people don't like it
but for youtube videos you know it makes sense to have a light theme it looks good it also encourages
you to learn more but anyway that's your choice if you want to use a white or black or dark especially
for me I prefer to use dark theme when I'm coding and for videos I prefer white themes anyway that's
a different debate so I can just use this I can also say two plus three here I'm not sure if the
font is visible but that's not important if I say two plus three enter okay we got syntax error again
I will say 2.3 I think I've entered something weird okay so you can see we got five there so yeah
you can do this here you can do that here or in the command prompt which we have opened earlier
but what about the pycharm so we got the pycharm installation done so you can see we got pycharm
download complete I will click on that taking some time and if you can see yes okay now setup
is very simple here you just have to say next next it will detect the python as well the setup
I'll click on next install again we'll take some time okay looks like a bulky software
they're doing a lot of extraction but that's a that's a thing with IDs you know they are bulky
otherwise you can also use VS code if you want that's your personal choice everything which we
are doing in pycharm or on the ideally it will also work on VS code okay setup complete and I can
also say run here from here or I can simply click on finish let me open pycharm taking some time again
okay I don't want to import these settings any import click on okay so basically I'm using pycharm
on this machine for the first time so you will get some extra prompts okay so what you can do here
is you can create a project you can name any project you can name anything you want I can click
on create and voila you got your project here so this is how the pycharm looks like and that's
your python code again don't get confused with the code here we'll understand this one step by step
but this is yeah this is your python code here you can even run this if you want but it will take
some time anyway we are going to see the pycharm how to use it later in the course so yeah that's
it from this video where we have to set up for the python interpreter and pycharm so if you and if
you are enjoying this series make sure that you hit that subscribe button and also hit the bell
icon because that's how you will know when I upload the other videos on the platform
